## R Code for "Scales of variation in zooplankton communities and monitoring for species of concern in southcentral Alaska"

This GitHub repository includes all the R Code associated with the publication “Scales of variation in zooplankton communities and monitoring for species of concern in southcentral Alaska” by Pappalardo et al., in ICES Journal of Marine Science. The paper used DNA-based plankton surveys to 1) evaluate factors affecting species richness and community composition, and 2) monitor for species of concern.

The R code was organized as an R project, with file numbers indicating different steps in the data analysis process. Each step has an .Rmd file with the main code and a .R file with the functions used in that step. All the required packages are listed in the setup chunk at the start of each.Rmd file. We provided all the functions used for reproducibility and cited the original sources when applicable. The final run of this code was done with R 4.5.1.

## Data and Reproducibility

The input data required to run the R code is available in FigShare:
[](). The complete FigShare data package includes a *data* folder with all the input data needed to run the code, and an *output* folder with the products generated by the code (results, figures, tables). To recreate the products, download the *data* folder and place it in the same directory as the code and R project file. The *data* folder is organized in subfolders:

1) __dada2__: includes the sequence tables from the dada2 pipeline and the tracking files.
2) __blast__: includes the blast results ran in the Smithsonian High Computing cluster plus the taxonomy files from each reference database to add higher taxonomy to the blast results.
3) __taxfiles__: includes files to add higher taxonomy to the reference databases.
4) __metadata__: includes:
  a. the field metadata for each sample in addition to basic information such as run_name and primers
  b. the non native status for each metazoan species assessed after checking the literature and occurrence data

To recreate the tables and results, download all the input data folders and place it in the same directory as the code and R project file.




